Containers are an old concept. For decades, Unix systems have had the chrootcommand, which provides a simple form of
filesystem isolation. Since 1998, FreeBSD has hadthe jail utility, which extended chroot sandboxing to processes.Solaris
Zones offered a comparatively complete containerization technologyaround 2001 but was limited to the Solaris OS. Also in
2001, SWsoft (now Parallels, Inc.) released the commercial Virtuozzo container technology for Linuxand later open sourced
the core technology as OpenVZ in 2005.3 Then Google started the development ofCGroups for the Linux kernel and began moving
its infrastructure tocontainers. The Linux Containers (LXC) project started in 2008 and brought together CGroups,
kernelnamespaces, and chroot technology (among others) to provide a completecontainerization solution. Finally, in 2013,
Docker brought the final pieces tothe containerization puzzle, and the technology began to enter the mainstream.Docker
took the existing Linux container technology and wrapped and extendedit in various ways—primarily through portable images
and a user-friendly interface—to create a complete solution for the creation and distribution of containers.The Docker
platform has two distinct components: the Docker Engine (which isresponsible for creating and running containers); and
the Docker Hub (a cloudservice for distributing containers).The Docker Engine provides a fast and convenient interface
for runningcontainers. Before this, running a container using a technology such as LXCrequired significant specialist
knowledge and manual work. The Docker Hubprovides an enormous number of public container images for download, allowingusers
to quickly get started and avoid duplicating work already done by others.Further tooling developed by Docker includes
Swarm, a clustering manager;Kitematic, a GUI for working with containers; and Machine, a command-line utility for provisioning
Docker hosts.By open sourcing the Docker Engine, Docker was able to grow a large communityaround Docker and take advantage
of public help with bug fixes and enhancements.The rapid rise of Docker meant that it effectively became a de facto standard,
which led to industry pressure to move to develop independent formal standardsfor the container runtime and format. In 2015,
this culminated in theestablishment of the Open Container Initiative, a “governance structure”sponsored by Docker, Microsoft,
CoreOS, and many other important organizations,whose mission is to develop such a standard. Docker’s container format andruntime
forms the basis of the effort.The uptake of containers has largely been driven by developers, who for thefirst time were given
the tools to use containers effectively. The fast startuptime of Docker containers is essential to developers who crave quick
anditerative development cycles where they can promptly see the results of codechanges. The portability and isolation guarantees
of containers easecollaboration with other developers and operations; developers can be sure theircode will work across
environments, and operations can focus on hosting andorchestrating containers rather than worrying about the code running
insidethem.The changes brought about by Docker are significantly changing the way we developsoftware. Without Docker,
containers would have remained in the shadows of ITfor a long time to come.
